No matter how good you are as project manager in getting things done,
if you can't communicate with your customers and team,
you will have a much harder time succeeding.
This section emphasizes the importance of clear and concise
communication content and methods of effective communication.
The last section was on leadership,
and good leaders are definitely good communicators.
It's no secret that good leaders are also good communicators.
We know that.
Effective communication is as much about authenticity as
the words you will speak and write.
So what I mean by authenticity,
that's the quality and trusted actions that you'll take
that'll match up to the words you say and write,
and I know you've heard it before, it's walk like you talk.
Also, communicate in a clear, credible, authentic way.
How can you organize, inspire,
or guide others if you don't communicate in a clear and credible way.
You just can't.
So the following sections will cover effective communication,
what to say, when to say it, and how to say it.
Effective communication, it's communicating to the right people,
getting them the right information, at the right time,
using the right method, and it really is that simple,
but it's a little bit like a puzzle as well.
So, who are the right people?
They're going to be your stakeholders, your team, your management.
And what is the right information?
Again,
by using your project control plan and its outcomes from the previous modules,
you'll use those to provide and gather the right information.
How do you deliver that information at the right time?
By understanding the needs of the receivers of the information,
you will ask them, would you like a status report?
Would you like a chart maybe that shows time and budget?
They will tell you.
And what is the right timing?
Weekly, daily?
So you ask your customers.
And lastly, using the right method, that will be phone calls,
emails, meetings, etc.
You need to know which one to use and when to be the most effective,
and we're going to detail of all of this.
What makes a great PM?
What makes you stand out from a crowd?
Well, let me tell you.
It's effective communications.
A big part of your job is communicating with others,
and you're going to need to understand that and get used to that as a PM.
Project managers need to be great communicators.
It's going to be one of your most important skills.
For me,
it's just hard to imagine the successful PM who is not also a good communicator.
As a software engineer,
you may not have considered how important communicating with others is,
and as software engineers, we may not have had much of that need,
but now we do.
There are some critical outcomes that relate to good communications.
One, of course, is managing customer expectations.
The customer,
stakeholder should never be wondering about how the project is
going because you're going to be telling them,
on time and with the right content.
Also another critical outcome is managing the project team,
your team,
since your team should not be wondering either on what to do
next or direct report managers shouldn't be in the dark about
your project's progress either.
And lastly, effective communication may just ensure your success.
So communication may be something as simple as walking around
and talking with members or stakeholders,
and may also mean sitting in lots of meetings.
Communications may also include talking on the telephone,
writing emails, instant messages, preparing for meetings,
creating and delivering briefings, and generating status report.
Now let's look at some key tips of successful communicators. So sit tight and let's get started.